<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OASIS Static Analysis Results Interchange Format (SARIF) TC Meeting #4 October 11, 2017</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font-family:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}p{margin:0.7ex 2.0em}pre{margin-left:4em;}
p.note{font-size:75%}
.code-like{font-family:monospace;font-size:120%!important}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}
#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
<!-- # grep -v excluding_those_lines __file__ |shasum -a 512 -->
<!-- sha512_excluding_those_lines='8e902c5b7146c793f28089b72d9eba5c45eae99a26c6c0b5cf2ab8079ca13b9714a66231ac90fe431e0caef6d9920f1452c1154b11938686d198079f0230151a' -->
</head>

<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OASIS Static Analysis Results Interchange Format (SARIF) TC Meeting #4 October 11, 2017</h1>
<p>Acting chair: David</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: sarif
From 2017-10-11 16:34 UTC until 18:24 UTC
</pre>

<h2 id="1">1. Call to Order and Welcome</h2>
<p>Chair: Called the meeting to order @ 16:34 UTC.</p>

<h2 id="2">2. Roll call</h2>
<p>All participants recorded their attendance on the OASIS meeting calendar - <b>quorum</b> was reached.
<blockquote>
<p>All participants were kindly encouraged to registrate themselves to optimize the use of the shared time during the meeting in one of two ways:<br>
Either click the link with the text "Register my attendance" on the top of the event page or directly visit the per event direct "record my attendance link":
<br><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/record_my_attendance.php?event_id=46072&confirmed=1" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/record_my_attendance.php?event_id=46072&amp;confirmed=1</a>, Thanks</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/event.php?event_id=46072">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=46072)</a>.</p>
<h3 id="2.1">2.1 Participants</h3>
<h4 id="2.1.1">2.1.1 Voting Members present</h4>
<p class="note">Note: Inaugural call special rule applies - registrated before some date and present in first meeting leads to voting member status already in that meeting.</p>

<pre>
Chris Wysopal (CA Technologies)
David Keaton (Individual)
Douglas Smith (Kestrel Technology)
Jim Kupsch (SWAMP)
Laurence Golding (Individual)
Luke Cartey (Semmle)
Mel Llaguno (Synopsys)
Michael Fanning (Microsoft)
Paul Anderson (GrammaTech, Inc.)
Stefan Hagen (Individual)
Yekaterina ONeil (Novell)
</pre>
<h4 id="2.1.2">2.1.2 Members present</h4>
<p class="note">Note: Despite the (mis-)calculations of the tool in the TC workspace, it is sufficient to participate in two subsequent meetings of a TC to obtain voting rights after that meeting.</p>
<pre>
Henny Sipma (Kestrel Technology)
Ken Prole (Code Dx, Inc.)
Pooya Mehregan (Security Compass)
Sunny Chatterjee (Microsoft)
</pre>
<h4 id="2.1.3">2.1.3 Observers present</h4>
<p class="note">Note: Observers of this committee that are ready to become Members should follow the specific instructions displayed the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">OASIS Open Notices</a> tab.</p>
<pre>
Andrew Browne (Oracle)
Vadim Okun (NIST)
</pre>
<h3 id="2.2">2.2 Voting Right Changes Effective After The Roll call of this Meeting</h3>
<h4 id="2.2.1">2.2.1 Members who gained Voting Rights</h4>
<pre>
Henny Sipma (Kestrel Technology)
Pooya Mehregan (Security Compass)
Sunny Chatterjee (Microsoft)
</pre>
<h4 id="2.2.2">2.2.2 Members who lost Voting Rights</h4>
<pre>
Ram Jeyaraman (Microsoft)
Philip Royer (Phantom)
Duncan Sparrell (sFractal Consulting LLC)
</pre>

<h2 id="3">3. Review Agenda</h2>
<p>Agenda draft published at <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61745/agenda_20171011.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61745/agenda_20171011.html</a> - content given below to support the reader:</p>
<pre>
1. Opening Activities
  1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Keaton)
  1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Cartey)
  1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Keaton)
  1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Keaton)
	URL = https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61745/agenda_20171011.html
  1.5 Approval of previous minutes [Minutes of 2017-09-27 Meeting#3] (Co-Chair Keaton)
	URL = https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61664/sarif-minutes-20170927-meeting-3.html
  1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Hagen)
  1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Cartey)
1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting
1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting
1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends
1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting
1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence
2. Future Meetings
  2.1 Future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)
	Teleconferences (Wednesdays at 09:30 Pacific):
	  October 25
	  November 8
	  November 29
	  December 13
	  January 10
	Face-to-face meeting
	  January 22-23 (tentative)
3. Document review
  3.1 Begin reviewing the working draft from the beginning, collecting questions and comments (Co-Editor Fanning)
4. Other Business
5. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)
  5.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)
  5.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)
  5.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)
6. Next Meeting
  October 25, 2017 / 09:30-11:30 PDT / 16:30-18:30 UTC
7. Adjournment
</pre>
<p><b>Laurence</b>: I <b>move</b> to approve. <b>Michael</b> seconds.</p>
<p><b>Laurence</b>: I <b>move</b> to amend by replacing single item 3.1 in the above agenda proposal with the following 7 items:</p>
<pre>
  3.1 Announcements (Co-Editor Fanning)
  3.2 Discuss Issue 33 - Should we allow formatting in messages?
	URL = https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/33
  3.3 Discuss Issue 56 - Consider adding namespaces to tags
	URL = https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/56
  3.4 Discuss Issue 57 - Consider URL protocol to reference internal files and provide an associated region
	URL = https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/57
  3.5 Discuss Issue 58 - Consider adding 'rank' or 'probability' property 
	URL = https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/58
  3.6 Discuss Issue 27 - Add 'help' property to rule object
	URL = https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/27
  3.7 Discuss Issue 55 - Consider restructuring SARIF to be location, not results-focused
	URL = https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/55
</pre>
<p><b>Michael</b>: seconds</p>
<p>David: No discussion, no objections, the motion is thus amended</p>
<p><b>Henny</b>: I <b>move</b> to amend the agenda 3.17.4 level discussion. <b>Michael</b> seconds.</p>
<p>David: No discussion, no objections, so ordered.</p>
<p>David: No discussion on agenda as amended, no objections to adopt as amended, the amended agenda is adopted</p>

<h2 id="4">4. Approval of previous minutes from 2017-09-27 Meeting #3</h2>
<p>Minutes at <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61664/sarif-minutes-20170927-meeting-3.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61664/sarif-minutes-20170927-meeting-3.html</a></p>
<p><b>Stefan</b>: I <b>move</b> to approve. <b>Michael</b> seconds.</p>
<p>David: No discussion, no objections, the minutes are approved unchanged as published</p>

<h2 id="5">5. Review of action items and resolutions</h2>
<ul>
<li>Officers to create the meetings for the agreed meeting times<br>
	<b>Status</b>: Ongoing (Done for today)</li>
<li>Michael to accept/merge the pull request <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/45" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/pull/45</a> to expose these principles as agreed<br>
	<b>Status</b>: Completed (pull request merged)</li>
<li>Laurence to investigate which safe and widely used flavour of markdown we might use<br>
	<b>Status</b>: Reported as <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/master/Documents/ChangeDrafts/sarif-v1.0-issue-33-gfm.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/master/Documents/ChangeDrafts/sarif-v1.0-issue-33-gfm.docx</a><br>
	<b>Details</b>: Further information in mail <a href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/sarif/201710/msg00003.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/sarif/201710/msg00003.html</a></li>
<li>Michael to amend the Issue #14 - Should we allow file identity to be specified by reference to a commit... with results from the meeting discussion<br>
	<b>Status</b>: Ongoing</li>
<li>Michael to compare a couple of embedding strategies for those location info relating also to cross referencing<br>
	<b>Status</b>: Ongoing</li>
<li>Michael will combine notes he took and the minutes as inputs to integrate them in the issues<br>
	<b>Status</b>: Ongoing</li>
<li>Laurence aggregates a taxonomy proposal<br>
	<b>Status</b>: Reported as <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/master/Documents/ChangeDrafts/sarif-v1.0-issue-3-taxonomies.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/master/Documents/ChangeDrafts/sarif-v1.0-issue-3-taxonomies.docx</a><br>
	<b>Details</b>: Further Information in mail <a href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/sarif/201710/msg00002.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/sarif/201710/msg00002.html</a></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="6">6. Future Meetings</h2>
<h3 id="6.1">6.1 Future meeting schedule (Teleconferences)</h3>
<pre>
October  25 16:30-18:30 UTC (12/13)
November 08 17:30-19:30 UTC (12/13) DE, US and UK now winter time
November 29 17:30-19:30 UTC (10/13) ... winter time
December 13 17:30-19:30 UTC (11/13) ... winter time
January  10 17:30-19:30 UTC (13/13) ... winter time
</pre>
<p><b>Note</b>:</p>
<blockquote>
<ul>
<li>US switches back on November 05 to winter time</li>
<li>DE, and UK both switch back on October 29 to winter time</li>
</ul>
</blockquote>
<h3 id="6.2">6.2 Face-to-face meeting</h3>
<pre>
January 22-23 (tentative)
</pre>
<h2 id="7">7. Document review</h2>
<h2 id="7.1">7.1 Announcements</h2>
<p>Michael: went through lots of issues and merged in the notes and updated the status of some</p>
<p>Michael: reports of a "bucket-bug" #48 <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/48" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/48</a></p>
<p>Michael: reports source control repository rendering is still in analysis and kindly asks for Atlassian experts to check back</p>
<p>Michael: Proposal on fingerprinting and asks members to collaborate on this one</p>
<p>Michael reports from newly raised issues: metrics on log files - should the format be location focused? Proposal only touch this to leave time for the discussion on the issue Henny raised</p>

<h3 id="7.2">7.2 Issue 33 - <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/33" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/33</a> - Should we allow formatting in messages?</h3>

<p>Laurence: walks all through a summary of the issue<br>
In markdown all dialogs are depending on the security of the processor, as all somehow allow embedding any HTML</p>
<p>Laurence: proposal to adopt github flavoured markdown</p>
<p>Laurence: offers to share <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/master/Documents/ChangeDrafts/sarif-v1.0-issue-33-gfm.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/blob/master/Documents/ChangeDrafts/sarif-v1.0-issue-33-gfm.docx</a> especially section  3.10.3</p>
<p>All discuss</p>
<p>Luke asks on 3.10.1 in proposed draft topic inline links and brief messages</p>
<p>All discuss briefness vs. richness</p>
<p>Michael: suggests to take the discussion offline</p>
<p>Paul: comments on substitution strings. Is the intention that the string substituted may also contain markup?</p>
<p>Laurence: states, that this was not the original intention</p>
<p>All discuss</p>
<p>Paul understands, that the substitution itself should not contain markdown</p>
<p>Michael: suggests the agreement might be, t ensure the injected strings must be validated as not exposing side effects (sanitised input)</p>
<p>All discuss further on the proposal and already specified aspects in the spec</p>
<p>Jim asks how to distinguish regular and format message in proposal</p>
<p>All discuss the options</p>
<p>Stefan suggests to in JSON not show keys that carry no values, so if we have future ideas, we should insert keys for them in the future and not now (sample mime-type)</p>
<p>Henny: describes the issue she raised and the proposal - Context level property</p>
<p>Paul:</p>
<pre>
It's just that my version of the document doesn't have a 5.17.4, but section 3.17.4 seems to be the right one, 
so I'm wondering if I'm looking at the same thing everyone else is. 
I'm looking at the two versions I just downloaded - the one with the taxonomies changes, and the other with the gfm changes.
</pre>
<p>Laurence: Explains that section under discussion is 3.17.4 (not 5.17.4). Explanation:</p>
<pre>
The original HTML-based spec was written to mimic the ISO template. 
When I re-cast it into .docx in the OASIS template, the section numbers changed.
Presumably Henny was looking at the HTML version.
</pre>
<p>Laurence: asks the values in the tools considered if they are related to other ones or are a distinct dimension</p>
<p>Henny: states that these do not correlate to warnings etc. because e.g. a value like safe is an immediate tool result without interpretation or scoring.</p>
<p>All discuss</p>
<p>Mel is concerned about leaking implementation details when using specific tool labels, but instead use proposed namespace policies, as e.g. did code could be a policy</p>
<p>Discussion continues</p>
<p>All discuss on namespace proposal and level / poly space forward slash structuring options</p>
<p>Michael: will create a new issue to continue the conversation</p>
<p>Henny: will suggest some polyspace specific terms so we can start from there</p>

<h3 id="7.3">7.3 Issue 56 - <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/56" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/56</a> - Consider adding namespaces to tags</h3>

<p>Luke: reports that with their products, the rules are already tagged and it works pretty well</p>
<p>Jim: asks if the dash in the displayed samples means something.</p>
<p>Laurence responds that no.</p>
<p>All discuss how tags may be mapped to other tags</p>
<p>Paul and Michael discuss</p>
<p>Laurence: asks if the proposal for taxonomy might be a good alternative to the namespace/tags and level proposals</p>
<p>Laurence: sent the taxonomies proposal in response to issue #3</p>
<p>Michael: has issues with this proposal</p>
<p>All discuss taxonomies and multiplicities</p>

<h2 id="8">8. Any other business</h2>
<p>No other business</p>

<h2 id="9">9. Resolutions and Decisions reached</h2>
<h3 id="9.1">9.1 Review of Decisions Reached</h3>
<blockquote>
<ol>
<li>Continue discussion of  <a href="hhhhhh" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">HHHHHH</a>https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec/issues/33 on the mailing list</li>
</ol>
</blockquote>

<h3 id="9.2">9.2 Review of Action Items</h3>
<blockquote>
<ol>
<li>Stefan to create all scheduled teleconference meetings before the next meeting</li>
<li>Michael will create a new issue to continue the conversation on namespaces and tool level &lt;placeholder for better term&gt;</li>
</ol>
</blockquote>

<h2 id="10">10. Next meeting</h2>
<p>All: Next meeting will start 2017-OCT-25 16:30 UTC with a duration of 2 hours</p>

<h2 id="11">11. Adjourn</h2>
<p>The meeting was adjourned at 18:24 UTC.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
