<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge">
  <title>OASIS Static Analysis Results Interchange Format (SARIF) TC Meeting #2 September 20, 2017</title>
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
  <style>
body{-webkit-font-smoothing:antialiased;font-family:Cambria,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;margin:0} body {margin-left:2%}
body,p,td,div{color:#111;font-family:"Helvetica Neue",Helvetica,Arial,Verdana,sans-serif;/*word-wrap:break-word*/}
h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6{line-height:1.5em}
a{-webkit-transition:color .2s ease-in-out;color:#0d6ea1;text-decoration:none}
a:hover{color:#3593d9}.footnote{color:#0d6ea1;font-size:.8em;vertical-align:super}dd{margin-bottom:1em}
li>p:first-child{margin:0}ul ul,ul ol{margin-bottom:.4em}.poetry
pre{display:block;font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important;font-size:110%!important;font-style:italic;line-height:1.6em;margin-left:1em}
.poetry pre code{font-family:Georgia,Garamond,serif!important}
sup,sub,a.footnote{font-size:1.4ex;height:0;line-height:1;position:relative;vertical-align:super}sub{vertical-align:sub;top:-1px}
p,h5{font-size:1.1429em;line-height:1.3125em;margin:1.3125em 0}dt,th{font-weight:700}p{margin:0.7ex 2.0em}pre{margin-left:4em;}
p.note{font-size:75%}
.code-like{font-family:monospace;font-size:120%!important}
@media print{body{overflow:auto}
#wrapper{background:#fff;color:#303030;font-size:85%;padding:10px;position:relative;text-indent:0}}
@media screen{/*::selection{background:rgba(157,193,200,.5)}*/.inverted{background:#333}
.inverted p,.inverted td,.inverted li,.inverted h1,.inverted h2,.inverted h3,.inverted h4,.inverted h5,.inverted h6,.inverted pre,.inverted code,.inverted th{color:#eee!important}
.inverted a{color:#fff;text-decoration:underline}#wrapper{padding:20px}.inverted #wrapper{background:#333}}
</style>
<!-- # grep -v excluding_those_lines __file__ |shasum -a 512 -->
<!-- sha512_excluding_those_lines='0c3e78c48275348d141acce4e65b85d9491e808688fc307f8ef78801edf97c5795d04e9b392c948e72c4ca319b4ff6c29cd5197b94efbe53be485ad66b2803ce' -->
</head>

<body class="normal">
  <div id="wrapper">
<h1>OASIS Static Analysis Results Interchange Format (SARIF) TC Meeting #2 September 20, 2017</h1>
<p>Acting chair: David</p>
<pre>Chat transcript from room: sarif
From 2017-09-20 16:36 UTC until 17:59 UTC
</pre>

<h2 id="1">1. Call to Order and Welcome</h2>
<p>Chair: Called the meeting to order @ 16:36 UTC.</p>

<h2 id="2">2. Roll call</h2>
<p>All participants recorded their attendance on the OASIS meeting calendar - <b>quorum</b> was reached.
<blockquote>
<p>All participants were kindly encouraged to registrate themselves to optimize the use of the shared time during the meeting in one of two ways:<br>
Either click the link with the text "Register my attendance" on the top of the event page or directly visit the per event direct "record my attendance link":
<br><a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/record_my_attendance.php?event_id=46016&confirmed=1" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/record_my_attendance.php?event_id=46016&amp;confirmed=1</a>, Thanks</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Details cf. <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/event.php?event_id=46016">normative attendance sheet for this meeting (event_id=45798)</a>.</p>
<h3 id="2.1">2.1 Participants</h3>
<h4 id="2.1.1">2.1.1 Voting Members present</h4>
<p class="note">Note: Inaugural call special rule applies - registrated before some date and present in first meeting leads to voting member status already in that meeting.</p>
<pre>
Andrew Pardoe (Microsoft)
David Keaton (Individual)
Douglas Smith (Kestrel Technology)
Jim Kupsch (SWAMP)
Kevin Greene (DHS Office of Cybersecurity and Communications (CS&amp;C))
Larry Hines (Novell)
Laurence Golding (Individual)
Luke Cartey (Semmle)
Mel Llaguno (Synopsys)
Michael Fanning (Microsoft)
Paul Anderson (GrammaTech, Inc.)
Stefan Hagen (Individual)
Vamshi Basupalli (SWAMP)
Yekaterina ONeil (Novell)
</pre>
<p>Also present OASIS Staff Contact:</p>
<pre>
Robin Cover (OASIS)
</pre>
<h4 id="2.1.2">2.1.2 Members present</h4>
<p class="note">Note: Despite the (mis-)calculations of the tool in the TC workspace, it is sufficient to participate in two subsequent meetings of a TC to obtain voting rights after that meeting.</p>
<pre>
Henny Sipma (Kestrel Technology)
Pooya Mehregan (Security Compass)
Sunny Chatterjee (Microsoft)
</pre>
<h4 id="2.1.3">2.1.3 Observers present</h4>
<p class="note">Note: Observers of this committee that are ready to become Members should follow the specific instructions displayed the <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/sarif/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">OASIS Open Notices</a> tab.</p>
<pre>
Andrew Browne (Oracle)
Vadim Okun (NIST)
</pre>
<h3 id="2.2">2.2 Voting Right Changes Effective After The Roll call of this Meeting</h3>
<h4 id="2.2.1">2.2.1 Members who gained Voting Rights</h4>
<pre>
None
</pre>
<h4 id="2.2.2">2.2.2 Members who lost Voting Rights</h4>
<pre>
None
</pre>

<h2 id="3">3. Review Agenda</h2>
<p>David: Shorty presented the tentative agenda:</p>
<pre>
1. Opening Activities
  1.1 Opening comments (Co-Chair Keaton)
  1.2 Introduction of participants/roll call (Co-Chair Cartey)
  1.3 Procedures for this meeting (Co-Chair Keaton)
  1.4 Approval of agenda (Co-Chair Keaton)
  1.5 Approval of previous minutes [Minutes of 2017-09-06 Meeting#1 (Inaugural)] (Co-Chair Keaton)
  1.6 Review of action items and resolutions (Secretary Hagen)
  1.7 Identification of SARIF TC voting members (Co-Chair Cartey)
	1.7.1 Prospective members attending their first meeting
	1.7.2 Members attaining voting rights at the end of this meeting
	1.7.3 Members losing voting rights if they have not joined this meeting by the time it ends
	1.7.4 Members who previously lost voting rights who are attending this meeting
	1.7.5 Members who have declared a leave of absence
2. Future Meetings
  2.1 Discuss future meeting schedule (Co-Chair Keaton)
	The following list is proposed as a starting point. This takes us just over half way into the expected SARIF schedule, and then provides for a face-to-face meeting where the remainder of the work can be planned.
	Teleconferences (Wednesdays 09:30 Pacific):
	   September 27
	   October 11
	   October 25
	   November 8
	   November 29
	   December 13
	   January 10
	 Face-to-face meeting:
	   January 22-23 (possibly Phoenix?)
3. Selection of Working Draft
  3.1 Acknowledge contributions and review any new contributions (Co-Chair Keaton)
  3.2 Vote to select a working draft (Co-Chair Keaton)
	Reminder that this is the starting point for further work, not the end point.
  3.3 Reminder to read the working draft for discussions beginning at the next meeting (Co-Chair Keaton)
  3.4 Procedures for issue tracking and revisions to the working draft (Editor Fanning)
4. Adopt Driving Principles
  4.1 Discuss what principles will guide the work (Editor Fanning)
	Suggested approach: refine, add to, or subtract from the following list
	SARIF is primarily designed to advance the industry by providing the best direct production format possible. Aggregating results from other formats is another important scenario but secondary to direct production.
	SARIF defines a range of data that shall be expressed in order to best support static analysis tooling. Our specification describes a JSON implementation of this standard. It should be possible to define other implementations (such as XML).
	SARIF is designed for static analysis tools and any concept that generally applies for this scenario shall be considered for the format. SARIF can clearly be used for many dynamic analysis scenarios and we should consider augmenting the format for this class of tooling, but not in cases where what is proposed is applicable to the dynamic analysis domain only (excluding static).
	If a motion is made to adopt the principles as amended, consider the motion.
5. Other Business
6. Resolutions and Decisions reached (by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end)
  6.1 End debate of other issues by 10 minutes prior to scheduled meeting end and follow the agenda from this point (Co-Chair Keaton)
  6.2 Review of Decisions Reached (Secretary Hagen)
  6.3 Review of Action Items (Secretary Hagen)
7. Next Meeting
8. Adjournment
</pre>
<p>David: No objections. Agenda approved unchanged as published.</p>

<h2 id="4">4. Approval of previous minutes from 2017-09-06 Meeting #1</h2>
<p>Minutes at <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61528/sarif-minutes-20170906-meeting-1.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61528/sarif-minutes-20170906-meeting-1.html</a></p>
<p>David: No objections. Minutes approved unchanged as published</p>

<h2 id="5">5. Future Meetings</h2>
<h3 id="5.1">5.1 Discuss future meeting schedule</h3>
<p><b>Laurence</b>: I <b>move</b> to approve the list of meetings. <b>Kevin</b> seconds.</p>
<p>Laurence: asks if possibly Phoenix or definitively?</p>
<p>David: clarifies, the motion fixes only the list and the idea of a face to face, not yet who will pay for the venue etc.</p>
<p>Yekaterina: asks if a shift to a different week day than Wednesday would be ok</p>
<p>All discuss</p>
<p>Some mention, that Fridays would be better</p>
<p>Yekaterina: could be available Wednesdays in part only</p>
<p>Some suggest meeting earlier on Wednesdays to accommodate</p>
<p>Suggested currently possibly 08:30 PDT (15:30 UTC)</p>
<p>Stefan: suggests a doodle for long term and next week like a compromise</p>
<p><b>Stefan</b> I <b>move</b> to amend in that sense</p>
<p>no debate</p>
<p>no objection to meet one week from today same time and have a doodle poll for remaining times</p>
<p>Two members signal problems joining next week</p>
<p>David: asks if October 11 would be an option? Yekaterina still has an issue?</p>
<p>Yekaterina: could join, if meeting one hour earlier</p>
<p>David: asks if one hour earlier next week</p>
<p>Two members have problems with next week (still)</p>
<p>Yekaterina: possibly not present next week then.</p>
<p>David: suggests to continue with the motion to amend a doodle for long term and next week like a compromise</p>
<p>no objections we will meet September 27 at the same time</p>
<p>A doodle poll for the remaining meetings will be set up after the meeting</p>
<p>Motion as amended is to meet next week at the same time</p>
<p>no objections the motion carries</p>
<p><b>Update after the meeting</b>The doodle poll <a href="https://doodle.com/poll/khs54abdxfvmdgpa" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://doodle.com/poll/khs54abdxfvmdgpa</a> has been created and the URL distributed on the TC mailing list on "Mon, 25 Sep 2017 04:13:12 -0700 (PDT)": <a href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/sarif/201709/msg00026.html" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/sarif/201709/msg00026.html</a></p>

<h2 id="6">6. Selection of Working Draft</h2>

<h3 id="6.1">6.1 Acknowledge contributions and review any new contributions</h3>
<p><b>Michael</b>: I <b>move</b> to chose the contribution from Microsoft (the single one) to accept as first working draft. <b>Laurence</b> seconds.</p>
<p>no objections, unanimous consent, the contribution has been approved as first working draft candidate</p>

<h3 id="6.2">6.2 Vote to select a working draft</h3>
<p>David: Reminder that this is the starting point for further work, not the end point.</p>
<h3 id="6.3">6.3 Reminder to read the working draft for discussions beginning at the next meeting</h3>
<p>Laurence: has transcribed the HTML input into the provided working product format from OASIS which he will subsequently post to the kavi</p>
<p><b>Update after the meeting</b> Laurence has uploaded the starter document including the transcribed contributed content as <a href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61618/sarif-v1.0-wd01.docx" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/61618/sarif-v1.0-wd01.docx</a>.</p>

<h3 id="6.4">6.4 Procedures for issue tracking and revisions to the working draft</h3>
<p>Michael: shares his screen and walks all through the proposed workflow and thanks the OASIS administration for the timely provisioning of a github hosted TC repository</p>
<p>Robin: Issues now: <a href="https://github.com/sarif-standard/sarif-spec/issues" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/sarif-standard/sarif-spec/issues</a></p>
<p>Stefan: New target repo is: <a href="https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">https://github.com/oasis-tcs/sarif-spec</a></p>

<h2 id="7">7. Adopt Driving Principles</h2>
<h3 id="7.1">7.1 Discuss what principles will guide the work</h3>
<p>
Suggested approach: refine, add to, or subtract from the following list:</p>
<blockquote><ul>
	<li>SARIF is primarily designed to advance the industry by providing the best direct production format possible. Aggregating results from other formats is another important scenario but secondary to direct production.</li>
	<li>SARIF defines a range of data that shall be expressed in order to best support static analysis tooling. Our specification describes a JSON implementation of this standard. It should be possible to define other implementations (such as XML).</li>
	<li>SARIF is designed for static analysis tools and any concept that generally applies for this scenario shall be considered for the format. SARIF can clearly be used for many dynamic analysis scenarios and we should consider augmenting the format for this class of tooling, but not in cases where what is proposed is applicable to the dynamic analysis domain only (excluding static).</li>
</ul></blockquote>
<p>If a motion is made to adopt the principles as amended, consider the motion.</p>
<p>Michael: walks through the suggested principles (listed above)</p>
<p>Henny: suggests if one could add more positive ("safe") results as type - which could contradict the results of other heuristic tools, but this could assist in triaging in case of conflict</p>
<p>Michael: thinks this is an interesting and welcome suggestion.</p>
<p>Laurence: discusses details on positive results as observations</p>
<p>Michael: continues listing the present means of the SARIF draft to contain and purport characterizations</p>
<p>Laurence: adds, that the SARIF result.level property supports two additional values: "notApplicable" (used, for example, when a rule that applies only to 64-bit binaries is run against a 32-bit binary), and "note" (used when the result is simply an observation about the code, and does not represent a problem).</p>
<p>Jim: adds that metrics and other info might need structure added?</p>
<p>Michael: seconds that as a good thing to discuss</p>
<p>Kevin: metrics are hard to produce</p>
<p>All discuss pro and con of introduction of new top level objects (complexity vs. clients needing to grab to much in property bags)</p>
<p>Jim: suggests to support more than just CWE taxonomies - maybe a generalisation to apply additional labelling to some weakness</p>
<p>Kevin: agrees with Jim</p>
<p>Laurence: proposes another principle. In the past he opposed to CWE because of not being domain agnostic, but generalising CWE (idea from Jim Kupsch) could be very good way to go</p>
<p>Luke: suggests to offer in any case a consistent way of storage inside SARIF, so we do not end up with the same kind of info added in two different ways</p>
<p>Luke: also talks on optional features in SARIF</p>
<p>Luke: asks if groupings as sets of optional features have been considered?</p>
<p>Laurence: states, that this has been considered, it was in an annex, that was removed some time ago; he thinks of profiles as the way to resolve this</p>
<p>Michael: suggests to put this also on the list for discussion</p>
<p>Yekaterina: suggests to in any case generalise - people use different taxonomies and the mappings among them may be off topic for the format</p>
<p>Kevin: thinks it's important to consider the targeted users... and what features/functionality may most resonate with them</p>
<p>Michael: wraps up the multiple CWE suggestions wighted against parsing complexity issues</p>
<p>Henny: likes the idea of generalising the taxonomies considered; based on C-Standard Kestrel already has such a taxonomy in use</p>
<p>Michael: thinks this is doable, and adds it as important to for any introduced "placeholder" there must be a concise notion (so this does not blur the semantics, thus no ambivalence in where to store what is introduced)</p>
<p>Michael: Sample: Memory Safety Taxonomy</p>
<p>Jim: thinks it would be nice, if we could represent CWE, Memory Safety Taxonomies, etc. inside SARIF so no one needs to repeat them in full and in parallel to provide</p>
<p>Laurence: likes the generalised taxonomy idea, and within providing explicit support for well-known ones. He still offers, that the format should be domain agnostic</p>
<p>Kevin: agrees with Laurence</p>
<p>Stefan: Time-check (invitation set to 90 minutes, but call planned for 120)</p>
<p>Henny: suggests we clarify what it means, when we agree on some taxonomy representation in SARIF, if semantics are included or if we only provide a stiff container without semantics</p>
<p>Laurence and Michael: are in favour of including the semantics applicable - so meaning should always be associated in some way</p>
<p>Michael: mentions many possible rankings as driving principle, to minimise any ranking display / storage as to reduce the noise and focus on the core facts (that do not change too much)</p>
<p>Laurence: moves to postpone decision to a later meeting</p>
<p>Michael: has collected notes and will combine with the minutes to produce suggested principles for the next meeting</p>


<h2 id="9">9. Next meeting</h2>
<p>David: Suggests to meet every other week</p>
<p>All: Next meeting will start 2017-09-27 16:30 UTC with a duration of 2 hours</p>

<h2 id="10">10. Any other business</h2>
<p>No other business</p>

<h2 id="11">11. Adjourn</h2>
<p>The meeting was adjourned at 17:59 UTC.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
